# Day 1

### Overview
Welcome to your first day of class! In this class, we will be introducing ourselves and the overall structure of the course. Towards the end of class, we will be working with the very basics of HTML.

### Class Objectives

* To allow students time to introduce themselves to one another and the instructional team
* To confirm that students have completed all required pre-work (software + tools installation)
* To introduce basic terminal/bash commands
* To create a basic HTML page

### Instructor Priorities:

* Students should feel completely welcome and start to open up.
* Prework Completed

---

#### 1. 9:30 - 10am (30m) | Introduce Valley Tech

Have Ernesto begin to talk about Valley Tech membership perks.
* CEED Building
* Unlimited Coffee
* LMS Learning for life
* Additional Tutoring


#### 2. 10am - 10:30am (30m) | Meet the Instructor / Student Intros
* Have every student in the class introduce themselves
(Name, Background, Dream Job/App Idea). Try to keep things lighthearted as they share their ideas but remember to try and keep things brief. We have a lot to go over in class today and will need all the time we can get.

* Then introduce yourself and showcase one thing you've built (added into the slide).

#### 3. 10:30 - 10:45 (15m) | How to Be A Good Developer
*   Talk about how Valley Tech is intense, we're different, and that we're here to support them 100% of the way to really help them achieve their goals.

* Talk about Imposter Syndrome and beginner fears. Having a humble attitude is the first requirement of being successful in this program. Coding is like nothing else these students have attempted to do. Their mastery of other subjects, their educational backgrounds, and professional success do not guarantee that they will do well here. The only thing that will guarantee success is hard work, humility, and a relentless desire to be better. Recognizing how little you know is a  first step towards creating that urgency. Keep a positive attitude and take breaks. You will doubt yourself. It will get hard at times.

#### 3. 10:45 - 11 (15m) | What I Expect

* You need to give a shit about your career
* You need to try your hardest.
* Don't Expect Work To Done For You

---

#### 12:30 - 1:20pm (50m) | Thinking Like a Programmer
##### SLIDES: "HTML & CSS"

* Basic Problem Solving
* Puzzle Solving, looking for possible solutions
* Breaking down a Problem
* Listing Instructions
* Deconstructing word problems

#### HTML Part 1
##### 2:30 - 3:20, 3:30 - 4:30

* HTML 5
* Tags & Elements
* Document Structure
* Tags and Their Attributes
